Aagenaes syndrome is a syndrome characterised by congenital hypoplasia of lymph vessels, which causes lymphedema of the legs and recurrent cholestasis in infancy, and slow progress to hepatic cirrhosis and giant cell hepatitis with fibrosis of the portal tracts.[1][2]The genetic cause is unknown, but it is autosomal recessively inherited and the gene is located to chromosome 15q1,2. A common feature of the condition is a generalised lymphatic anomaly, which may be indicative of the defect being lymphangiogenetic in origin1. The condition is particularly frequent in southern Norway, where more than half the cases are reported from, but is found in patients in other parts of Europe and the U.S..[3] It is named after Oystein Aagenaes, a Norwegian paediatrician.It is also called cholestasis-lymphedema syndrome (CLS).[4]SHORT syndrome is a medical condition in which affected individuals have multiple birth defects in different organ systems.It was characterized in 1975.[1]SHORT is an acronym for short stature, hyperextensibility of joints and/or inguinal hernia, ocular depression, rieger anomaly and teething delay.Other characteristics common in SHORT syndrome are a triangular face, small chin with a dimple, a loss of fat under the skin (lipodystrophy), abnormal position of the ears, hearing loss and delayed speech.Aarskog–Scott syndrome is a rare disease inherited as autosomal dominant or X-linked and characterized by short stature, facial abnormalities, skeletal and genital anomalies.The Aarskog–Scott syndrome (AAS) is also known as the Aarskog syndrome, faciodigitogenital syndrome, shawl scrotum syndrome and faciogenital dysplasia.The Aarskog–Scott syndrome is a disorder with short stature, hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, anteverted nostrils, joint laxity, shawl scrotum, and mental retardation. The physical phenotype varies with age and postpuberal males may have only minor remnant manifestations of the prepuberal phenotype.Aarskog–Scott syndrome is transmitted in an X-linked recessive manner. The sons of female carriers are at 50% risk of being affected with the syndrome. The daughters of female carriers are at 50% risk of being carriers themselves. Females may have mild manifestations of the syndrome. The syndrome is caused by mutation in a gene called FGDY1 in band p11.21 on the X chromosome.The Aarskog–Scott syndrome is due to mutation in the FGD1 gene. FGD1 encodes a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that specifically activates Cdc42, a member of the Rho (Ras homology) family of the p21 GTPases. By activating Cdc42, FGD1 protein stimulates fibroblasts to form filopodia, cytoskeletal elements involved in cellular signaling, adhesion, and migration. Through Cdc42, FGD1 protein also activates the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling cascade, a pathway that regulates cell growth, apoptosis, and cellular differentiation.Within the developing mouse skeleton, FGD1 protein is expressed in precartilaginous mesenchymal condensations, the perichondrium and periosteum, proliferating chondrocytes, and osteoblasts. These results suggest that FGD1 signaling may play a role in the biology of several different skeletal cell types including mesenchymal prechondrocytes, chondrocytes, and osteoblasts. The characterization of the spatiotemporal pattern of FGD1 expression in mouse embryos has provided important clues to the understanding of the pathogenesis of Aarskog–Scott syndrome.It appears likely that the primary defect in Aarskog–Scott syndrome is an abnormality of FGD1/Cdc42 signaling resulting in anomalous embryonic development and abnormal endochondral and intramembranous bone formation.Genetic testing may be available for mutations in the FGDY1 gene. Genetic counseling is indicated for individuals or families who may carry this condition, as there are overlapping features with fetal alcohol syndrome.[1]Similar to all genetic diseases Aarskog–Scott syndrome cannot be cured, although numerous treatments exist to increase the quality of life.[2]Surgery may be required to correct some of the anomalies, and orthodontic treatment may be used to correct some of the facial abnormalities. Trials of growth hormone have been effective to treat short stature in this disorder.[3]Mild degrees of mental slowness may be present, but affected children usually have good social skills. Some males may exhibit reduced fertility.Some recent findings have included cystic changes in the brain and generalized seizures[citation needed] . There may be difficulty growing in the first year of life in up to one-third of cases. Misaligned teeth may require orthodontic correction. An undescended testicle will require surgery.Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency (MIM 103050, ADSL) is a rare autosomal recessive disease causing severe mental retardation and/or autistic features.1,2 Seizures are often observed (80%),3 varying in age of onset (from newborn to late childhood) and nature (tonic-clonic, “suppression burst” pattern, West syndrome, etc.), and are very often resistant to all medication. Around 50% of the children show autistic-like behaviour.4 Microcephaly is rare (1/13 of reported cases). Non-specific anomalies of the brain, such as hypoplasia of the vermis, cerebral atrophy,5 lack of myelination,6 white matter anomalies,7 and lissencephaly4 have often been described.Other Complications: • Low self-esteem • Social difficulties related to physical problems • Male infertility in those with both testes undescended • Problems with the structure of the heart • Accumulation of fluid in tissues of body (lymphedema, cystic hygroma) • Failure to thrive in infants.The syndrome is named for Dagfinn Aarskog, a Norwegian pediatrician and human geneticist who first described it in 1970,[4] and for Charles I. Scott, Jr., an American medical geneticist who independently described the syndrome in 1971.[5]Aase syndrome or Aase–Smith syndrome is a rare inherited disorder characterized by anemia with some joint and skeletal deformities. Aase syndrome is thought to be an autosomal recessive inherited disorder.[1] The genetic basis of the disease is not known. The anemia is caused by underdevelopment of the bone marrow, which is where blood cells are formed.It is named after the American paediatricians Jon Morton Aase and David Weyhe Smith, who characterized it in 1968.[2]Frequent blood transfusions are given in the first year of life to treat anemia. Prednisone may be given, although this should be avoided in infancy because of side effects on growth and brain development. A bone marrow transplant may be necessary if other treatment fails.Anemia usually resolves over the years.As with most genetic diseases there is no way to prevent the entire disease. With prompt recognition and treatment of infections in childhood, the complications of low white blood cell counts may be limited.Aase syndrome or Aase–Smith syndrome is a rare inherited disorder characterized by anemia with some joint and skeletal deformities. Aase syndrome is thought to be an autosomal recessive inherited disorder.[1] The genetic basis of the disease is not known. The anemia is caused by underdevelopment of the bone marrow, which is where blood cells are formed.It is named after the American paediatricians Jon Morton Aase and David Weyhe Smith, who characterized it in 1968.[2]Frequent blood transfusions are given in the first year of life to treat anemia. Prednisone may be given, although this should be avoided in infancy because of side effects on growth and brain development. A bone marrow transplant may be necessary if other treatment fails.Anemia usually resolves over the years.As with most genetic diseases there is no way to prevent the entire disease. With prompt recognition and treatment of infections in childhood, the complications of low white blood cell counts may be limited.Abasia (from Greek: a-, without and basis, step) is the inability to walk due to impaired muscle coordination.The term covers a spectrum of medical disorders such as:Abasia is frequently accompanied by astasis, an inability to stand, see Astasia-abasia.ABCD syndrome is the acronym for albinism, black lock, cell migration disorder of the neurocytes of the gut and sensorineural deafness. It has been found to be caused by mutation in the endothelin B receptor gene (EDNRB).ABCD syndrome is defined as albinism, black lock, cell migration disorder of the neurocytes of the gut, and deafness. It was initially misdiagnosed and later discovered that a homozygous mutation in the EDNRB gene causes ABCD syndrome. This helped scientists discover that it is the same as type IV Waardenburg syndrome, also known as Shah-Waardenburg Syndrome.In the beginning, medical officials defined ABCD syndrome by the four key characteristics of the syndrome. In the first case study of the Kurdish girl, researches described her as having “albinism and a black lock at the right temporo-occiptital region along Blaschko lines, her eyelashes and brows were white, the irises in her eyes appeared to be blue, she had spots of retinal depigmentation, and she did not react to noise.”[1] The albinism is interesting in this diagnosis because the skin of an affected individual is albino pale besides the brown patches of mispigmented skin. The “black locks” described and seen in clinical pictures of the infants are thick patches of black hair above the ears that form a half circle reaching to the other ear to make a crest shape.As identified in this first case study and stated in a dictionary of dermatologic syndromes, ABCD syndrome has many notable features, including “snow white hair in patches, distinct black locks of hair, skin white except brown macules, deafness, irises gray to blue, nystagmus, photophobia, poor visual activity, normal melanocytes in pigmented hair and skin, and absent melanocytes in areas of leukoderma.”[2] Individuals have the blue/gray irises typical of people affected by blindness. The C of ABCD syndrome is what distinguishes this genetic disorder from BADS and it involves cell migration disorder of the neurocytes of the gut. This characteristic occurs when nerve cells do not function correctly in the gut, which results in aganglionosis: The intestines’ failure to move food along the digestive tract. Deafness or being unresponsive to noise due to very low quality of hearing was reported in every case of ABCD syndrome. The characteristics of ABCD syndrome are clearly evident in an inflicted individual.No longer considered a separate syndrome, ABCD syndrome is today considered to be a variation of Shah-Waardenburg type IV. Waardenburg syndrome (WS) is described as “the combination of sensorinerual hearing loss, hypopigmentation of skin and hair, and pigmentary disturbances of the irides.”[3] Hearing loss and deafness, skin mispigmentation and albinism, and pigmentary changes in irises are the similarities between WS and ABCD. According to a dictionary of dermatologic syndromes, Waardenburg syndrome has many notable features, including “depigmentaion of hair and skin - white forelock and prematuring graying of hair, confluent thick eyebrows, heterochromic irides or hypopigmentation of iris, laterally displacy inner canthi, congenital sensorinerual deafness, broad nasal root, autosomal dominant disorder, and other associated findings, including black forelocks.”[2]Researchers in the past 20 years have determined that a gene mutation, specifically a homozygous mutation in the EDNRB gene, is the cause of ABCD syndrome. The advancement of technology led to new DNA material testing methods and this discovery changed the view of ABCD syndrome completely. A homozygous mutation means that there was an identical mutation on both the maternal and paternal genes. The identifying clinical report stated the test was done by scanning the Kurdish family for mutations in the EDNRB gene and the EDN3 gene by using a test called denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. The electrophoresis test takes advantage of electrical currents and differences in melting points of fragments of DNA or RNA to move them based on their molecular weight; the differences in mobility of the fragments then can be analyzed to determine different sequences and to detect individual alleles. Different nucleotides in DNA are codes for certain proteins, which are formed by different patterns of the base pairs adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. The combination of adenine and thymine and guanine and cytosine align on the double strands of DNA. The test results found “an aberrant DGGE pattern of exon 3 of the EDNRB gene. The mutation was determined to be a homozygous C to T base pair transition at the amino acid level, causing a premature stop in gene translation.”[3] This specialized testing enables geneticists to recognize the gene mutation that is the cause of ABCD syndrome.New findings introduced an important break in the beliefs about ABCD syndrome because the endotherlin B gene is a gene involved in Shah-Waardenburg syndrome. The endothelin receptor B produces Waardenburg syndrome type IV.[4] Researchers began discussing the possibility that ABCD syndrome was in fact not a syndrome; rather it was a type of another syndrome known as Waardenburg. Discovering that the same gene is involved in ABCD and Waardenburg syndrome is important because researchers can now look further into ways to fix this crucial gene.Screening generally only takes place among those displaying several of the symptoms of ABCD, but a study on a large group of institutionalized deaf people in Columbia revealed that 5.38% of them were Waardenburg patients. Because of its rarity, none of the patients were diagnosed with ABCD (Waardenburg Type IV). Nothing can be done to prevent the disease.The occurrence of WS has been reported to be one in 45,000 in Europe. The diagnosis can be made prenatally by ultrasound due to the phenotype displaying pigmentary disturbances, facial abnormalities, and other developmental defects.[5] After birth, the diagnosis is initially made symptomatically and can be confirmed through genetic testing. If the diagnosis is not made early enough, complications can arise from Hirschsprung's disease.Treatment for the disease itself is nonexistent, but there are options for most of the symptoms. For example, one suffering from hearing loss would be given hearing aids, and those with Hirschsprung’s disorder can be treated with a colostomy.If the Hirschsprung's disease is treated in time, ABCD sufferers live otherwise healthy lives. If it is not found soon enough, death often occurs in infancy. For those suffering hearing loss, it is generally regressive and the damage to hearing increases over time. Digestive problems from the colostomy and reattachment may exist, but most cases can be treated with laxatives. The only other debilitating symptom is hearing loss, which is usually degenerative and can only be treated with surgery or hearing aids.Dutch ophthalmologist Petrus Johannes Waardenburg (1886–1979) brought about the idea of Waardenburg syndrome when he examined two deaf twins.[6] Waardenburg decided to define the syndrome with the six major symptoms that patients most commonly had.When scientists further investigated the syndrome, they realized that patients exhibited a wider range of symptoms of this disease in different combinations. This helped them distinguish forms of Waardenburg syndrome. Their evaluation consisted of specifying Waardenburg syndrome type I (WS1), type II (WS2), type III (WS3), and type IV (WS4).In 1995, a case study was performed of a Kurdish family. Scientists completed a molecular analysis with DNA strands of the patients diagnosed with ABCD syndrome. Their task was to scan the sequences to find a mutation in the EDNRB gene, one of the most important protein-coding genes. When they completed the scan they “found a homozygous C to T transition resulting, at the amino acid level, in a premature stop codon.”[3] Then, they went back and defined that Shah-Waardenburg syndrome consisted majorly of “mutations in the ENDRB or END3 gene,” along “with [some] SOX10 mutations.”[3] Therefore, the researchers confirmed that ABCD syndrome was a form of Shah-Waardenburg syndrome. The genetic tests that they performed on the patients DNA helped in identifying the appropriate diagnosis.In 2002, Whitkop and other scientists examined patients born with white hair, some black locks, and depigmented skin; he diagnosed them as having black lock albinism deafness syndrome (BADS).[1] Those who were closely working with this case suggested that it was an autoimmune disorder rather than a genetic defect. However, soon after, they had a patient who was one of fourteen children of Kurdish parents. The pedigree they examined revealed autosomal-recessive inheritance which led to cell migration of the neurocytes in the gut and, therefore, they redefined the syndrome as ABCD syndrome.[1] This revealed “a homozygous nonsense mutation in the EDNRB gene” meaning that ABCD syndrome was not a separate entity but rather the same as Shah-Waardenburg syndrome.[3]EDAR (EDAR hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia)Abdallat–Davis–Farrage syndrome is a form of phakomatosis, a disease of the central nervous system accompanied by skin abnormalities. It is characterized by the out of the ordinary pigment of skin that is abnormal to one's genetics or the color perceived on a basis..The condition is named after the team of medical professionals who first wrote it up, describing the appearance of the syndrome in a family from Jordan. It was characterized in 1980 by Adnan Abdallat, a Jordanian doctor.[1]The syndrome is thought to be inherited as an autosomal recessive genetic trait, meaning that in order to manifest symptoms, a person must inherit a gene for Abdallat–Davis–Farrage syndrome from both parents. As it is also autosomal (not linked to either of the genes that determine gender), it can manifest in both men and women. Those with only one gene are carriers, and they typically manifest no symptoms; in the event that a person inherits both genes, symptoms usually appear before one year of age.[citation needed]Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA),[1] also known as a triple-a, is a localized enlargement of the abdominal aorta such that the diameter is greater than 3 cm or more than 50% larger than normal.[2] They usually cause no symptoms except when ruptured.[2] Occasionally there may be abdominal, back or leg pain.[3] Large aneurysms can sometimes be felt by pushing on the abdomen.[3] Rupture may result in pain in the abdomen or back, low blood pressure or a brief loss of consciousness.[2][4]AAAs occur most commonly in those over 50 years old, in men, and among those with a family history.[2] Additional risk factors include smoking, high blood pressure, and other heart or blood vessel diseases.[5] Genetic conditions with an increased risk include Marfan syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. AAAs are the most common form of aortic aneurysm.[6] Approximately 85 percent occur below the kidneys with the rest either at the level of or above the kidneys.[2] In the United States screening males with ultrasound who are between 65 and 75 year old and have a history of smoking is recommended.[7] In the United Kingdom screening all men over 65 is recommended.[2] Australia has no guideline on screening.[8] Once an aneurysm is found, further ultrasounds are typically done on a regular basis.[3]Not smoking is the single best way to prevent the disease. Other methods of prevention include treating high blood pressure, treating high blood cholesterol and not being overweight. Surgery is usually recommended when an AAA's diameter grows to >5.5 cm in males and >5.0 cm in females.[2] Other reasons for repair include the presence of symptoms and a rapid increase in size.[3] Repair may be either by open surgery or endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR).[2] As compared to open surgery, EVAR has a lower risk of death in the short term and a shorter hospital stay but may not always be an option.[2][9][10] There does not appear to be a difference in longer term outcomes between the two.[11] With EVAR there is a higher need for repeat procedures.[12]AAAs affect between 2% and 8% of males over the age of 65. Rates among women are four times lower. In those with an aneurysm less than 5.5 cm the risk of rupture in the next year is less than 1%. Among those with an aneurysm between 5.5 and 7 cm the risk is about 10% while for those with an aneurysm greater than 7 cm the risk is about 33%. Mortality if ruptured is 85% to 90%.[2] During 2013, aortic aneurysms resulted in 152,000 deaths up from 100,000 in 1990.[13] In the United States AAAs resulted in between 10,000 and 18,000 deaths in 2009.[6]The vast majority of aneurysms are asymptomatic. However, as abdominal aortic aneurysms expand, they may become painful and lead to pulsating sensations in the abdomen or pain in the chest, lower back, or scrotum.[14] The risk of rupture is high in a symptomatic aneurysm, which is therefore considered an indication for surgery. The complications include rupture, peripheral embolization, acute aortic occlusion, and aortocaval (between the aorta and inferior vena cava) or aortoduodenal (between the aorta and the duodenum) fistulae. On physical examination, a palpable abdominal mass can be noted. Bruits can be present in case of renal or visceral arterial stenosis.[15]The signs and symptoms of a ruptured AAA may includes severe pain in the lower back, flank, abdomen or groin. A mass that pulses with the heart beat may also be felt.[4] The bleeding can leads to a hypovolemic shock with low blood pressure and a fast heart rate. This may lead to brief passing out.[4]The mortality of AAA rupture is as high as 90 percent. 65 to 75 percent of patients die before they arrive at the hospital and up to 90 percent die before they reach the operating room.[16] The bleeding can be retroperitoneal or into the abdominal cavity. Rupture can also create a connection between the aorta and intestine or inferior vena cava.[17] Flank ecchymosis (appearance of a bruise) is a sign of retroperitoneal bleeding, and is also called Grey Turner's sign.[15][18]Aortic aneurysm rupture may be mistaken for the pain of kidney stones, muscle related back pain.[4]The exact causes of the degenerative process remain unclear. There are, however, some hypotheses and well-defined risk factors.[19]The most striking histopathological changes of aneurysmatic aorta are seen in tunica media and intima. These include accumulation of lipids in foam cells, extracellular free cholesterol crystals, calcifications, thrombosis, and ulcerations and ruptures of the layers. There is an adventitial inflammatory infiltrate.[17] However, the degradation of tunica media by means of proteolytic process seems to be the basic pathophysiologic mechanism of the AAA development. Some researchers report increased expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinases in individuals with AAA. This leads to elimination of elastin from the media, rendering the aortic wall more susceptible to the influence of the blood pressure.[15] Others reports have suggested the serine protease granzyme B may contribute to aortic aneurysm rupture through the cleavage of decorin leading to disrupted collagen organization and tensile strength of the adventitia.[24][25] There is also a reduced amount of vasa vasorum in the abdominal aorta (compared to the thoracic aorta); consequently, the tunica media must rely mostly on diffusion for nutrition which makes it more susceptible to damage.[26]Hemodynamics affect the development of AAA. It has a predilection for the infrarenal aorta. The histological structure and mechanical characteristics of infrarenal aorta differ from those of the thoracic aorta. The diameter decreases from the root to the bifurcation, and the wall of the abdominal aorta also contains a lesser proportion of elastin. The mechanical tension in abdominal aortic wall is therefore higher than in the thoracic aortic wall. The elasticity and distensibility also decline with age, which can result in gradual dilatation of the segment. Higher intraluminal pressure in patients with arterial hypertension markedly contributes to the progression of the pathological process.[17] Suitable hemodynamics conditions may be linked to specific intraluminal thrombus (ILT) patterns along the aortic lumen, which in turn may affect AAA's development.[27]An abdominal aortic aneurysm is usually diagnosed by physical exam, ultrasound, or CT. Plain abdominal radiographs may show the outline of an aneurysm when its walls are calcified. However, this is the case in less than half of all aneurysms. Ultrasonography is used to screen for aneurysms and to determine the size of any present. Additionally, free peritoneal fluid can be detected. It is noninvasive and sensitive, but the presence of bowel gas or obesity may limit its usefulness. CT scan has a nearly 100% sensitivity for aneurysm and is also useful in preoperative planning, detailing the anatomy and possibility for endovascular repair. In the case of suspected rupture, it can also reliably detect retroperitoneal fluid. Alternative less often used methods for visualization of the aneurysm include MRI and angiography.An aneurysm ruptures if the mechanical stress (tension per area) exceeds the local wall strength; consequently, peak wall stress (PWS)[28] and peak wall rupture risk (PWRR)[29] have been found to be more reliable parameters than diameter to assess AAA rupture risk. Medical software allows computing these rupture risk indices from standard clinical CT data and provides a patient-specific AAA rupture risk diagnosis.[30] This type of biomechanical approach has been shown to accurately predict the location of AAA rupture.[31]A ruptured AAA with an open arrow marking the aneurysm and the closed arrow marking the free blood in the abdomenSagittal CT image of an AAA.Biomechanical AAA Rupture risk prediction.An axial contrast enhanced CT scan demonstrating an abdominal aortic aneurysm of 4.8 by 3.8 cmUltrasound image of a normal abdominal aorta measuring 1.9 cm in diameter.The faint outline of the calcified wall of a AAA as seen on plain X-rayAbdominal aortic aneurysms (3.4 cm)Abdominal aortic aneurysms are commonly divided according to their size and symptomatology. An aneurysm is usually defined as an outer aortic diameter over 3 cm (normal diameter of the aorta is around 2 cm).[32] If the outer diameter exceeds 5.5 cm, the aneurysm is considered to be large.[33] A ruptured AAA is a clinical diagnosis involving the presence of the triad of abdominal pain, shock and a pulsatile abdominal mass. If these conditions are present, indicating AAA rupture, no further clinical investigations are needed before surgery.[34]The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends a single screening ultrasound for abdominal aortic aneurysm in males age 65 to 75 years who have a history of smoking.[7] There is an estimated number needed to screen of approximately 850 people.[35] It is unclear if screening is useful in women aged 65 to 75 who have smoked and they recommend against screening in women who have never smoked.[7]Repeat ultrasounds should be carried out in those who have an aortic size greater than 3.0 cm.[36] In those whose aorta is between 3.0 and 3.9 cm this should be every three years, if between 4.0 and 4.4 cm every two year, and if between 4.5 and 5.4 cm every year.[36]In the United Kingdom one time screening is recommended in all males over 65 years of age.[2]The treatment options for asymptomatic AAA are conservative management, surveillance with a view to eventual repair, and immediate repair. There are currently two modes of repair available for an AAA: open aneurysm repair (OR), and endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). An intervention is often recommended if the aneurysm grows more than 1 cm per year or it is bigger than 5.5 cm.[20] Repair is also indicated for symptomatic aneurysms.[37]Conservative management is indicated in patients where repair carries a high risk of mortality and in patients where repair is unlikely to improve life expectancy. The mainstay of the conservative treatment is smoking cessation.Surveillance is indicated in small asymptomatic aneurysms (less than 5.5 cm) where the risk of repair exceeds the risk of rupture. As an AAA grows in diameter the risk of rupture increases. Surveillance until the aneurysm has reached a diameter of 5.5 cm has not been shown to have a higher risk as compared to early intervention.[38][39]No medical therapy has been found to be effective at decreasing the growth rate or rupture rate of asymptomatic AAAs.[2] Blood pressure and lipids should however be treated per usual.[32]Surgery for an abdominal aortic aneurysm is known as AAA surgery or AAA repair.The threshold for repair varies slightly from individual to individual, depending on the balance of risks and benefits when considering repair versus ongoing surveillance. The size of an individual's native aorta may influence this, along with the presence of comorbidities that increase operative risk or decrease life expectancy.[37] Evidence; however, does not support repair if the size is between 4 cm and 5.5 cm.[40]Open repair is indicated in young patients as an elective procedure, or in growing or large, symptomatic or ruptured aneurysms. The aorta must be clamped off during the repair, denying blood to the abdominal organs and sections of the spinal cord; this can cause a range of complications. It is essential to make the critical part of the operation fast, so the incision is typically made large enough to facilitate the fastest repair. Recovery after open AAA surgery takes significant time. The minimums are a few days in intensive care, a week total in the hospital and a few months before full recovery.Endovascular repair first became practical in the 1990s and although it is now an established alternative to open repair, its role is yet to be clearly defined. It is generally indicated in older, high-risk patients or patients unfit for open repair. However, endovascular repair is feasible for only a proportion of AAAs, depending on the morphology of the aneurysm. The main advantages over open repair are that there is less peri-operative mortality, less time in intensive care, less time in hospital overall and earlier return to normal activity. Disadvantages of endovascular repair include a requirement for more frequent ongoing hospital reviews, and a higher chance of further procedures being required. According to the latest studies, the EVAR procedure does not offer any benefit for overall survival or health-related quality of life compared to open surgery, although aneurysm-related mortality is lower.[41][42][43][44] In patients unfit for open repair, EVAR plus conservative management was associated with no benefit, more complications, subsequent procedures and higher costs compared to conservative management alone.[45] Endovascular treatment for paraanastomotic aneurysms after aortobiiliac reconstruction is also a possibility.[46]In those with aortic rupture of the AAA, treatment is immediate surgical repair. There appears to be benefits to allowing permissive hypotension and limiting the use of intravenous fluids during transport to the operating room.[47]Although the current standard of determining rupture risk is based on maximum diameter, it is known that smaller AAAs that fall below this threshold (diameter<5.5 cm) may also rupture, and larger AAAs (diameter>5.5 cm) may remain stable.[50][51] In one report, it was shown that 10–24% of ruptured AAAs were less than 5 cm in diameter.[51] It has also been reported that of 473 non-repaired AAAs examined from autopsy reports, there were 118 cases of rupture, 13% of which were less than 5 cm in diameter. This study also showed that 60% of the AAAs greater than 5 cm (including 54% of those AAAs between 7.1 and 10 cm) never experienced rupture.[52] Vorp et al. later deduced from the findings of Darling et al. that if the maximum diameter criterion were followed for the 473 subjects, only 7% (34/473) of cases would have succumbed to rupture prior to surgical intervention as the diameter was less than 5 cm, with 25% (116/473) of cases possibly undergoing unnecessary surgery since these AAAs may never have ruptured.[52]Alternative methods of rupture assessment have been recently reported. The majority of these approaches involve the numerical analysis of AAAs using the common engineering technique of the finite element method (FEM) to determine the wall stress distributions. Recent reports have shown that these stress distributions have been shown to correlate to the overall geometry of the AAA rather than solely to the maximum diameter.[53][54][55] It is also known that wall stress alone does not completely govern failure as an AAA will usually rupture when the wall stress exceeds the wall strength. In light of this, rupture assessment may be more accurate if both the patient-specific wall stress is coupled together with patient-specific wall strength. A non-invasive method of determining patient-dependent wall strength was recently reported,[56] with more traditional approaches to strength determination via tensile testing performed by other researchers in the field.[57][58][59] Some of the more recently proposed AAA rupture-risk assessment methods include: AAA wall stress;[28][60][61] AAA expansion rate;[62] degree of asymmetry;[55] presence of intraluminal thrombus (ILT);[63] a rupture potential index (RPI);[64][65] a finite element analysis rupture index (FEARI);[66] biomechanical factors coupled with computer analysis;[67] growth of ILT;[68] geometrical parameters of the AAA;[69] and also a method of determining AAA growth and rupture based on mathematical models.[70][71]The post-operative mortality for an already ruptured AAA has slowly decreased over several decades but remains higher than 40%.[34] However, if the AAA is surgically repaired before rupture, the post-operative mortality rate is substantially lower: approximately 1-6%.[72]The occurrence of AAA varies by ethnicity. In the United Kingdom the rate of AAA in Caucasian men older than 65 years is about 4.7%, while in Asian men it is 0.45%.[73] It is also less common in individuals of African, and Hispanic heritage.[2] They occur four times more often in men than women.[2]There are at least 13000 deaths yearly in the U.S. secondary to AAA rupture.[2] The peak number of new cases per year among males is around 70 years of age, the percentage of males affect over 60 years is 2-6%. The frequency is much higher in smokers than in non-smokers (8:1), and the risk decreases slowly after smoking cessation.[74] In the U.S., the incidence of AAA is 2-4% in the adult population.[15]Rupture of the AAA occurs in 1-3% of men aged 65 or more, the mortality is 70-95%.[33]The first historical records about AAA are from Ancient Rome in the 2nd century AD, when Greek surgeon Antyllus tried to treat the AAA with proximal and distal ligature, central incision and removal of thrombotic material from the aneurysm. However, attempts to treat the AAA surgically were unsuccessful until 1923. In that year, Rudolph Matas (who also proposed the concept of endoaneurysmorrhaphy), performed the first successful aortic ligation on a human.[75] Other methods that were successful in treating the AAA included wrapping the aorta with polyethene cellophane, which induced fibrosis and restricted the growth of the aneurysm. Albert Einstein was operated on by Rudolph Nissen with use of this technique in 1949, and survived five years after the operation, though he eventually died when the aneurysm ruptured.[76] Endovascular aneurysm repair was first performed in the late 1980s and has been widely adopted in the subsequent decades. Endovascular repair was first used for treating a ruptured aneurysm in Nottingham in 1994[77]Former presidential candidate Bob Dole had an abdominal aortic aneurysm in 2001 and was treated surgically by vascular surgeon Kenneth Ouriel. The operation was successful. In 1993, country music singer Conway Twitty died from AAA, and actor George C. Scott also died of an Abdominal Aneurysm.[78]In 2001 former presidential candidate Bob Dole underwent surgery for an abdominal aortic aneurysm in which a team of surgeons led by Doctor Kenneth Ouriel inserted a stent graft:— Associated PressActor Robert Jacks, who plays Leatherface in Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Next Generation died from an abdominal aneurysm on August 8, 2001, just one day shy of his 42nd birthday. His father also died from the same cause when Robert was a child.There have been many calls for alternative approaches to rupture-risk assessment over the past number of years, with many believing that a biomechanics-based approach may be more suitable than the current diameter approach. Numerical modelling is a valuable tool to researchers allowing approximate wall stresses to be calculated, thus revealing the rupture potential of a particular aneurysm. Experimental models are required to validate these numerical results, and provide a further insight into the biomechanical behaviour of the AAA. In vivo, AAAs exhibit a varying range of material strengths[79] from localised weak hypoxic regions[80] to much stronger regions and areas of calcifications.[81]Experimental models can now be manufactured using a novel technique involving the injection-moulding lost-wax manufacturing process to create patient-specific anatomically correct AAA replicas.[82] Work has also focused on developing more realistic material analogues to those in vivo, and recently a novel range of silicone-rubbers was created allowing the varying material properties of the AAA to be more accurately represented.[83] These rubber models can also be used in a variety of experimental testing from stress analysis using the photoelastic method[84] to deterimining whether the locations of rupture experimentally correlate with those predicted numerically.[85] New endovascular devices are being developed that are able to treat more complex and tortuous anatomies.[86]An animal study showed that removing a single protein prevents early damage in blood vessels from triggering a later-stage, complications. By eliminating the gene for a signaling protein called cyclophilin A (CypA) from a strain of mice, researchers were able to provide complete protection against abdominal aortic aneurysm.[87]Other recent research identified Granzyme B (GZMB) (a protein-degrading enzyme) to be a potential target in the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Elimination of this enzyme in mice models — both slowed the progression of aneurysms and improved survival.[88][89]Lymphangiomas are malformations of the lymphatic system characterized by lesions that are thin-walled cysts; these cysts can be macroscopic, as in a cystic hygroma, or microscopic.[1] The lymphatic system is the network of vessels responsible for returning to the venous system excess fluid from tissues as well as the lymph nodes that filter this fluid for signs of pathogens. These malformations can occur at any age and may involve any part of the body, but 90% occur in children less than 2 years of age and involve the head and neck. These malformations are either congenital or acquired. Congenital lymphangiomas are often associated with chromosomal abnormalities such as Turner syndrome, although they can also exist in isolation. Lymphangiomas are commonly diagnosed before birth using fetal ultrasonography. Acquired lymphangiomas may result from trauma, inflammation, or lymphatic obstruction.Most lymphangiomas are benign lesions that result only in a soft, slow-growing, "doughy" mass. Since they have no chance of becoming malignant, lymphangiomas are usually treated for cosmetic reasons only. Rarely, impingement upon critical organs may result in complications, such as respiratory distress when a lymphangioma compresses the airway. Treatment includes aspiration, surgical excision, laser and radiofrequency ablation, and sclerotherapy.Lymphangiomas have traditionally been classified into three subtypes: capillary and cavernous lymphangiomas and cystic hygroma. This classification is based on their microscopic characteristics. A fourth subtype, the hemangiolymphangioma is also recognized.[2]Lymphangiomas may also be classified into microcystic, macrocystic, and mixed subtypes, according to the size of their cysts.[2]Finally, lymphangiomas may be described in stages, which vary by location and extent of disease. In particular, stage depends on whether lymphangiomas are present above or superior to the hyoid bone (suprahyoid), below or inferior to the hyoid bone (infrahyoid), and whether the lymphangiomas are on one side of the body (unilateral) or both (bilateral).[2]There are three distinct types of lymphangioma, each with their own symptoms. They are distinguished by the depth and the size of abnormal lymph vessels, but all involve a malformation of the lymphic system. Lymphangioma circumscriptum can be found on the skin's surface, and the other two types of lymphangiomas occur deeper under the skin.The direct cause of lymphangioma is a blockage of the lymphatic system as a fetus develops, although symptoms may not become visible until after the baby is born. This blockage is thought to be caused by a number of factors, including maternal alcohol use and viral infections during pregnancy. Why the embryonic lymph sacs remain disconnected from the rest of the lymphatic system is not known.[6]Cystic lymphangioma that emerges during the first two trimesters of pregnancy is associated with genetic disorders such as Noonan syndrome and trisomies 13, 18, and 21. Chromosomal aneuploidy such as Turner syndrome or Down syndrome[7] were found in 40% of patients with cystic hygroma.[8]In 1976, Whimster studied the pathogenesis of lymphangioma circumscriptum, finding lymphatic cisterns in the deep subcutaneous plane are separated from the normal network of lymph vessels. They communicate with the superficial lymph vesicles through vertical, dilated lymph channels. Whimster theorized the cisterns might come from a primitive lymph sac that failed to connect with the rest of the lymphatic system during embryonic development.A thick coat of muscle fibers that cause rhythmic contractions line the sequestered primitive sacs. Rhythmic contractions increase the intramural pressure, causing dilated channels to come from the walls of the cisterns toward the skin. He suggested that the vesicles seen in lymphangioma circumscriptum are outpouchings of these dilated projecting vessels. Lymphatic and radiographic studies support Whimsters observations. Such studies reveal that big cisterns extend deeply into the skin and beyond the clinical lesions. Lymphangiomas that are deep in the dermis show no evidence of communication with the regular lymphatics. The cause for the failure of lymph sacs to connect with the lymphatic system is not known.[5]Microscopically, the vesicles in lymphangioma circumscriptum are greatly dilated lymph channels that cause the papillary dermis to expand. They may be associated with acanthosis and hyperkeratosis. There are many channels in the upper dermis which often extend to the subcutis (the deeper layer of the dermis, containing mostly fat and connective tissue). The deeper vessels have large calibers with thick walls which contain smooth muscle. The lumen is filled with lymphatic fluid, but often contains red blood cells, lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. The channels are lined with flat endothelial cells. The interstitium has many lymphoid cells and shows evidence of fibroplasia (the formation of fibrous tissue). Nodules (A small mass of tissue or aggregation of cells) in cavernous lymphangioma are large, irregular channels in the reticular dermis and subcutaneous tissue that are lined by a single layer of endothelial cells. Also an incomplete layer of smooth muscle also lines the walls of these channels. The stroma consists of loose connective tissue with a lot of inflammatory cells. These tumors usually penetrate muscle. Cystic hygroma is indistinguishable from cavernous lymphangiomas on histology.[6]The typical history of Lymphangioma circumscriptum shows a small number of vesicles on the skin at birth or shortly after. In subsequent years, they tend to increase in number, and the area of skin involved continues to expand. Vesicles or other skin abnormalities may not be noticed until several years after birth. Usually, lesions are asymptomatic or do not show any evidence of a disease, but, mostly, patients may have random break outs of some bleeding and major drainage of clear fluid from ruptured vesicles.Cavernous lymphangioma first appears during infancy, when a rubbery nodule with no skin changes becomes obvious in the face, trunk, or extremity. These lesions often grow at a rapid pace, similar to that of raised hemangiomas. No family history of prior lymphangiomas is described.Cystic hygroma causes deep subcutaneous cystic swelling, usually in the axilla, base of the neck, or groin, and is typically noticed soon after birth. If the lesions are drained, they will rapidly fill back up with fluid. The lesions will grow and increase to a larger size if they are not completely removed in surgery.[5]Cases of lymphangioma are diagnosed by histopathologic inspection.[9] In prenatal cases, cystic lymphangioma is diagnosed using an ultrasound; when confirmed amniocentesis may be recommended to check for associated genetic disorders.Treatment for cystic hygroma involves the removal of the abnormal tissue; however complete removal may be impossible without removing other normal areas. Surgical removal of the tumor is the typical treatment provided, with the understanding that additional removal procedures will most likely be required as the lymphangioma grows. Most patients need at least two procedures done for the removal process to be achieved. Recurrence is possible but unlikely for those lesions able to be removed completely via excisional surgery.[10] Radiotherapy and chemical cauteries are not as effective with the lymphangioma than they are with the hemangioma.[11] Draining lymphangiomas of fluid provides only temporary relief, so they are removed surgically. Cystic Hygroma can be treated with OK432 (Picibanil).The least invasive and most effective form of treatment is now performed by interventional radiologists. A sclerosing agent, such as 1% or 3% sodium tetradecyl sulfate, doxycycline, or ethanol, may be directly injected into a lymphocele. "All sclerosing agents are thought to work by ablating the endothelial cells of the disrupted lymphatics feeding into the lymphocele."[12]Lymphangioma circumscription can be healed when treated with a flashlamp pulsed dye laser, although this can cause port-wine stains and other vascular lesions.[13]The prognosis for lymphangioma circumscriptum and cavernous lymphangioma is generally excellent. This condition is associated with minor bleeding, recurrent cellulitis, and lymph fluid leakage. Two cases of lymphangiosarcoma arising from lymphangioma circumscriptum have been reported; however, in both of the patients, the preexisting lesion was exposed to extensive radiation therapy.In cystic hygroma, large cysts can cause dysphagia, respiratory problems, and serious infection if they involve the neck. Patients with cystic hygroma should receive cytogenetic analysis to determine if they have chromosomal abnormalities, and parents should receive genetic counseling because this condition can recur in subsequent pregnancies.[6]Complications after surgical removal of cystic hygroma include damage to the structures in the neck, infection, and return of the cystic hygroma.[10]Lymphangiomas are rare, accounting for 4% of all vascular tumors in children.[14] Although lymphangioma can become evident at any age, 50% are seen at birth,[2] and 90% of lymphangiomas are evident by 2 years of age.[2]In 1828, Redenbacher first described a lymphangioma lesion. In 1843, Wernher gave the first case report of a cystic hygroma, from the Greek "hygro-" meaning fluid and "oma" meaning tumor. In 1965, Bill and Summer proposed that Cystic hygromas and lymphangiomas are variations of a single entity and that its location determines its classification.Abdominal Wall defects are a type of congenital defect that allows the stomach, the intestines, or other organs to protrude through an unusual opening that forms on the abdomen.[1]During the development of the fetus, many unexpected changes occur inside of the womb. Specifically, the stomach, intestines, or other organs begin to develop outside of the fetus’ abdomen through the abnormal hole in the abdomen, and as development progresses, the abdominal wall eventually encloses these organs. In some cases of this defect, either the umbilical opening is too oversized or has developed improperly which allows the organs to remain outside or to squeeze through the abdominal wall.[1]There are two main types of abdominal wall defects that result due to the changes during development. They are omphalocele and gastroschisis. Gastroschisis develops when the abdominal wall does not completely close, and the organs are present outside of the infant’s body. Omphalocele occurs when some of the organs protrude through the muscles of the abdomen in the area surrounding the umbilical cord. Omphalocele can be either minor, with only some of the organs exposed, or severe, with most, if not all of the abdominal organs being exposed.[1]Out of all of the causes of birth defects, information about a great number is still unknown. As of 2004, the reason that abdominal wall defects occur has yet to be determined or understood. The symptoms that the mother may present that would indicate the development of the defect and unnoticeable .[1] Most cases of abdominal wall defects have been found to be sporadic and have no relationship with the history of the disorder within the family.[2]The EPA is aware that a common herbicide called Atrazine causes abdominal wall defects as well as other birth defects and cancer. Atrazine has been banned in the EU since 2004, yet is still commonly used in the US despite the evidence of harm. Atrazine affects the drinking water supply, most predominantly in the midwest.The Center for Disease Control and Prevention did a study on the relationship between Atrazine and abdominal wall defects:"Gastroschisis and omphalocele are congenital abdominal wall defects (AWD). Atrazine and nitrates are common agricultural fertilizers"and concluded:"Indiana has significantly higher rates of AWD [abdominal wall defects] compared with national rates. Increased atrazine levels correlate with increased incidence of AWD."Before birth, openings in the abdomen can usually be detected be a detailed ultrasound or AFP screening. In addition to the ultrasound or AFP scanning, it is also necessary for children with this defect to be checked for other birth defects due to the fact that genetic disorders are usually associated with some of the abdominal wall defects. In looking for other genetic disorders that may be associated, Genetic counseling and further genetic testing, such as amniocentesis, are offered.[1]Concerns that arise due to abdominal wall defects can be threatening and require immediate and intensive medical care. Some infections may persist for long periods of time and lead to serious complications, such as feeding problems, which can cause the infant to require several surgeries. Since these complications can be severe, it is recommended that parents work closely with a team of physicians throughout the duration of the treatment. After the treatment is completed, children with abdominal wall defects may need additional help. Additional services are usually necessary for with omphalocele and the associated chromosomal abnormalities and birth defects that also arise. Treatments in these cases are long-term and focus on the physical and developmental difficulties that the children will endure. The parents may find this process difficult and need assistance in dealing with the process by a service that is provided by the healthcare team.[1]Abdominal wall defects, specifically the main two types, gastroschisis and omphalocele, are rare in occurrence.[1] There occurrence is only in approximately one case out of every 5000 births,[1] with rates in the United States only occurring in about one case out of 2000 births. These numbers mean that there are only about 2,360 cases of this disease diagnosed in the United States per year.In looking at the specifics of the individuals who develop this disorder, there is no difference in the number of cases found in boys verses girls. Mothers who are below the age of twenty are almost four times as likely to have an offspring that has developed an abdominal wall defect, as a mother who is in her late twenties and older.[1] Abdominal wall defects can be treated surgically if there is no accompanying anomalies. The surgical procedure also called omphalocele repair/closure or gastroschisis repair/closure is not overly complicated. The organs are normal but are misplaced.However, if the abdominal cavity is too small or when the organs are too large or swollen to close the skin, it may be difficult to fit all the viscera into the small abdominal cavity. In such cases, the surgeon will place a covering pouch generally made of silastic, commonly called a silo (because it's shaped like an agricultural silo), over the abdominal organs on the outside of the infant.[3] The silo serves to conserve heat and prevent infection.[3] The silo can also be spring-loaded to gradually squeeze the organs through the pouch into the opening and return them into the body.[3] This procedure can take up to a week, and final closure may be performed a few weeks later. More surgery may be required to repair the abdominal muscles at a later time.If there are no other defects, the prognosis after surgical repair of this condition is relatively good. However, 10% of those with more severe or additional abnormalities die from it. The organs themselves are fully functional; the difficulty lies in fitting them inside the abdomen. The condition is, in fact, a hernia requiring only replacement and strengthening of the passageway through which it occurred. After surgery, increased pressure in the stretched abdomen can compromise the function of the organs inside.Abdominal musculature absent with microphthalmia and joint laxity is a rare human disorder characterized mainly by ligamentous laxity, small eyes, a lack of abdominal muscles and facial anomalies.Aberrant subclavian artery, or aberrant subclavian artery syndrome, refers to a rare anatomical variant of the origin of the right or left subclavian artery. This abnormality is the most common congenital vascular anomaly of the aortic arch.The aberrant artery usually arises just distal to the left subclavian artery and crosses in the posterior part of the mediastinum usually behind the oesophagus on its way to the right upper extremity. Such course of this aberrant vessel may cause a vascular ring around the trachea and oesophagus. Dysphagia due to an aberrant right subclavian artery is termed dysphagia lusoria. Palsy of the recurrent laryngeal nerve is termed Ortner's syndrome.The aberrant right subclavian artery frequently arises from a dilated segment of the proximal descending aorta, the so-called Diverticulum of Kommerell. It is alternatively known as lusorian artery.Surgery is sometimes used to treat the condition.[1]Aberrant subclavian artery at axial CT-scan. (1) trachea, (2) esophagus, (3) Aberrant subclavian artery.Aberrant right subclavian artery at angiography.Tape-like impression of the esophagus caused by aberrant subclavian artery. Below (arrows) narrowing of the esophagus by a tumor that is causing the swallowing problems.Aberrant subclavian artery seen at swallowing study: Impression of the esophagus from behind.Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome (AMS) is an extremely rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by malformations of the skull, skin, fingers and genitals.[1] Affected individuals may also have malformations of the nipples and abdominal wall.Younger individuals might experience language difficulties, and in some instances mental retardation is known.[2]It has been suggested that AMS is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.[1][3] This means the defective gene responsible for the disorder is located on an autosome, and two copies of the defective gene (one inherited from each parent) are required in order to be born with the disorder. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder both carry one copy of the defective gene, but usually do not experience any signs or symptoms of the disorder.Treatment usually involves plastic and reconstructive surgery. Surgery may be needed to correct undescended testes or hernias.Some characteristics of Abruzzo–Erickson syndrome include deafness, protruding ears, coloboma, a cleft palate or palatal rugosity, and short stature.It was characterized in 1977.[1]The congenital absence of the gluteal muscle was described in 1976, as occurring in a brother and sister with absence of gluteal muscles and with spina bifida occulta. It was thought to be caused by an autosomal recessive gene.Edgar et al. (2012) reported the case of a 15-year-old white male with congenital absence of the gluteus maximus muscles associated with spina bifida occulta, learning disability, optic nerve hypoplasia, scoliosis, and central nervous system hamartomas.If gluteal muscles were absent the following actions would not be possible. The gluteus maximus extends the thigh at the hip in actions like stair climbing, running or walking. It also abducts the thigh, elevates the trunk and also prevents the truck of a person from moving forward or backward when the rest of the body is in movement. The gluteal maximus also aids in stabilizing the femur and the tibia. The gluteas minimus and medius are also part of the gluteal muscles. If these muscles were missing, the leg would not be able to abduct or medial rotate the thigh. The body would also not be able to shift weight from one side to the other when one foot is on the ground but not another. Considering this a rare congenital disease with other complications, walking would also not be possible in the list of additional symptoms above.Pathology is insertional tendinopathy of the medius and tendons and enlargement of the associated bursa. [1] Gluteals remain inactive in a seated position. Movements that require muscles become more difficult; stress is put on the spine. [2]Lymphocytopenia, or lymphopenia, is the condition of having an abnormally low level of lymphocytes in the blood. Lymphocytes are a white blood cell with important functions in the immune system. The opposite is lymphocytosis, which refers to an excessive level of lymphocytes.Lymphocytopenia may be present as part of a pancytopenia, when the total numbers of all types of blood cells are reduced.In some cases, lymphocytopenia can be further classified according to which kind of lymphocytes are reduced. If all three kinds of lymphocytes are suppressed, then the term is used without further qualification.The most common cause of temporary lymphocytopenia is a recent infection, such as the common cold.Lymphocytopenia, but not idiopathic CD4+ lymphocytopenia, is associated with corticosteroid use, infections with HIV and other viral, bacterial, and fungal agents, malnutrition, systemic lupus erythematosus,[2] severe stress,[3] intense or prolonged physical exercise (due to cortisol release),[4] rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis,[5] and iatrogenic (caused by other medical treatments) conditions.Lymphocytopenia is a frequent, temporary result from many types of chemotherapy, such as with cytotoxic agents or immunosuppressive drugs. Some malignancies that have spread to involve the bone marrow, such as leukemia or advanced Hodgkin's disease,[6][7] also cause lymphocytopenia.Large doses of radiation, such as those involved with nuclear accidents or medical whole body radiation, may cause lymphocytopenia.Lymphocytopenia is diagnosed from the results of a complete blood count. In adults, a lymphocyte level below 1,500 cells/microliter is diagnostic (proof of the condition), and in children, a lymphocyte level below 3,000 cells/microliter is diagnostic.Lymphocytopenia that is caused by infections tends to resolve once the infection has cleared. Patients with idiopathic CD4+ lymphocytopenia may have either abnormally low but stable CD4+ cell counts, or abnormally low and progressively falling CD4+ cell counts; the latter condition is terminal.Lymphocytopenia caused by Feline Leukemia Virus and Feline immunodeficiency virus retroviral infections is treated with Lymphocyte T-Cell Immune Modulator.[8]peripheral: Purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiencyAcanthocheilonemiasis is a rare tropical infectious disease caused by a parasite known as Acanthocheilonema perstans. It can cause skin rashes, abdominal and chest pains, muscle and joint pains, neurological disorders and skin lumps. It is mainly found in Africa. The parasite is transmitted through the bite of small flies. Studies show that there are elevated levels of white blood cells.Chorea-acanthocytosis (ChAc, also called Choreoacanthocytosis),[1] is a rare hereditary disease caused by a mutation of the gene that directs structural proteins in red blood cells. It belongs to a group of four diseases characterized under the name Neuroacanthocytosis.[2] When a patient's blood is viewed under a microscope, some of the red blood cells appear thorny. These thorny cells are called acanthocytes.Other effects of the disease may include epilepsy, behaviour changes, muscle degeneration, and neuronal degradation similar to Huntington's Disease. The average age of onset of symptoms is 35 years. The disease is incurable and inevitably leads to premature death.Some more information about Chorea-acanthocytosis is that it is a very complex autosomal recessive adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder. It often shows itself as a mixed movement disorder, in which chorea, tics, dystonia and even parkinsonism may appear as a symptom. [3]This disease is also characterized by the presence of a few different movement disorders including chorea, dystonia etc. [4]Chorea-acanthocytosis is considered an autosomal recessive disorder, although a few cases with autosomal dominant inheritance have been noted.[1]There are multiple symptoms that can help this disease to be diagnosed, this disease is marked by the presence of acanthocytes in blood (these acanthocytes can sometimes be absent or even make a late appearance in the course of the disease.)[5] and neurodegeneration causing a choreiform movement disorder.[6]Another one of them would be that this disease should be considered in patients who have elevated levels of acanthocytes in a peripheral blood film.
The serum creatine kinase is often elevated in the body of the people who are affected by this disease.[3]
People afflicted by this disease also experience a loss of neurons. Loss of neurons is a hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases. Due to the generally non-regenerative nature of neuronal cells in the adult central nervous system, this results in an irreversible and fatal process of neurodegeneration.[6] There is also the presence of several movement related disorders including chorea, dystonia and bradykinesia, one of the more incapacitating ones includes Truncal spasms. [4]Protein function tests that demonstrate a reduce in chorein levels and also genetic analysis can confirm the diagnosis given to a patient. For a disease like this it is often necessary to sample the blood of the patient on multiple occasions with a specific request given to the haematologist to examine the film for acanthrocytes.[3] Another point is that the diagnosis of the disease can be confirmed by the absence of chorein in the western blot of the erythrocyte membranes.[6]The treatment to battle the disease chorea-acanthocytosis is completely symptomatic. For example, Botulinum toxin injections can help to control orolingual dystonia.[3] Deep Brain Stimulation is a treatment that has varied effects on the people suffering from the symptoms of this disease, for some it has helped in a large way and for other people it did not help whatsoever, it is more effective on specific symptoms of the disease.[4] Patients with chorea-acanthocytosis should undergo a cardiac evaluation every 5 years to look for cardiomyopathy.Acanthosis nigricans is a brown to black, poorly defined, velvety hyperpigmentation of the skin. It is usually found in body folds,[1] such as the posterior and lateral folds of the neck, the armpits, groin, navel, forehead, and other areas.Acanthosis nigricans is conventionally divided into benign and malignant forms.,[2][3] although may be divided into syndromes according to cause:[4]:506An alternate classification system still used to describe acanthosis nigricans was proposed in 1994. This classification system delineates acanthosis nigricans syndromes according to their associated syndromes, including benign and malignant forms, forms associated with obesity and drugs, acral acanthosis nigricans, unilateral acanthosis nigricans, and mixed and syndromic forms.[5][6]Acanthosis nigricans may present with thickened, velvety, relatively darker areas of skin on the neck, armpit and in skin folds.[2]It typically occurs in individuals younger than age 40, may be genetically inherited, and is associated with obesity or endocrinopathies, such as hypothyroidism, acromegaly, polycystic ovary disease, insulin-resistant diabetes, or Cushing's disease.Familial acanthosis may arise as a result of an autosomal dominant trait, presenting at birth or developing during childhood.[4]:506[8]:676Endocrine syndromes associated with acanthosis nigricans can develop in many conditions, particularly:[2]:978 [7]:86Acanthosis nigricans associated with endocrine dysfunction is more insidious in its onset, is less widespread, and the patients are often concurrently obese.[8]:676In young persons, AN is a visible marker which strongly suggests insulin resistance. Higher than normal insulin levels in the blood stream causes the growth of darkened skin over certain areas of the body. There is no skin treatment that will get rid of AN. Acanthosis Nigricans may lighten up and possibly go away by treating the root cause, Insulin Resistance but it can take months or years to do so.[9] Insulin resistance syndromes may be divided into Type A (HAIR-AN) and type B syndromes.[2]:978 The majority of cases of acanthosis nigricans are associated with obesity and otherwise idiopathic. This is likely because of insulin resistance, and more likely to occur in darker-skinned persons.[2]:968 This is can also be referred to as "Pseudo-Acanthosis Nigricans".Acanthosis nigricans has been linked to the use of nicotinic acid,[2] glucocorticoid use, COCP, growth hormone therapy, and stilbesterol.[7]Malignant acanthosis nigricans refers to acanthosis nigricans occurring as a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with a cancer. Malignant acanthosis nigricans is most-commonly associated with gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas, as well as genitourinary cancers such as those of the prostate, breast, and ovary. Other cancers, such as those of the lung, stomach, and lymphoma, are occasionally associated with acanthosis nigricans.[7]:86[10]This form of acanthosis nigricans is more likely to involve mucous membranes (25-50% of cases)[3][11] Malignant acanthosis nigricans that may either precede (18%), accompany (60%), or follow (22%) the onset of an internal cancer.[4]:506 Malignancy-associated acanthosis nigricans is usually rapid in onset and may be accompanied by skin tags, multiple seborrheic keratoses, or tripe palms.[8]:676Acral Acanthotic Anomaly refers to a variant of acanthosis nigricans limited to the elbows, knees, knuckles and dorsal surfaces of the feet, in the absence of any other findings, in otherwise healthy individuals.[12][13][14][15] While the etiology remains unknown,[15] its presence does not suggest a likelihood of malignancy.[15]The pathogenesis of acanthosis nigricans is poorly understood, and likely to relate to an interplay of factors,[16] including insulin-mediated activation of ILGF receptors on keratinocytes, and increased growth factor levels.[16]Factors involved in the development of acanthosis nigricans include:In conjunction with increased end levels of ILGF, it is likely that perspiration and friction may be necessary predeterminants for lesions.[16]Acanthosis nigricans is typically diagnosed clinically.[2] A skin biopsy may be needed in unusual cases. If no clear cause of acanthosis nigricans is obvious, it may be necessary to search for one. Blood tests, an endoscopy, or x-rays may be required to eliminate the possibility of diabetes or cancer as the cause.[7]:87On biopsy, hyperkeratosis, epidermal folding, leukocyte infltration, and melanocyte proliferation may be seen.[2]:979[7]:87Acanthosis nigricans should be distinguished from the Casal collar appearing in pellegra.[citation needed]Acanthosis nigricans is likely to improve in circumstances where a known cause is removed. For example, obesity-related acanthosis nigricans will improve with weight loss, and drug-induced acanthosis nigricans is likely to resolve when the drug is ceased. Hereditary variants may or may not fade with age, and malignancy-associated variants may, after a malignancy is removed, fade.[7] :87People with acanthosis nigricans should be screened for diabetes and, although rare, cancer. Controlling blood glucose levels through exercise and diet often improves symptoms. Topical fade creams (normally used for eliminating age spots) can lighten skin cosmetically in less severe cases. Acanthosis nigricans maligna may resolve if the causative tumor is successfully removed.[17]